No, sir. No, sir. I must have been before my time or
after.
Let's see. Did you all go to any campus dances? No,
sir. As a matter of fact, Richard and I never did go
to dance. See, I don't dance. I'm a teetotaler. I
don't drink and I don't smoke. I don't go to dances
because my grandmother raised me, you see. She was
really strict and she didn't want me to get mixed up
with the wrong people and start drinking with them
and all this. I share those practices with you. And
then my wife was brought up with the Baptists in
Beeville, and you know, the Baptists don't dance
either. Now, there had been some veterans'
temporary housing down here on this side of the
football stadium. That had been removed by the
time you all got here. There were some temporary,
where G. Raleigh White Coliseum is now, there were
some temporary veteran's houses in 46 and 47, but
those were gone by the time y'all got here.
As you are going on toward that major in animal
husbandry, who did you turn to for advice and
counsel? Who gave, who told you what courses to
take? Nobody told me what courses to take, no.
Rachel had a brother that was working for the BVL
Experimental Station, and he was an animal
husband and an agronomer, okay? And in
conversations with him and the other two that were
attending here,
I was interested in agronomy, but then I was afraid
that I would not be able to pass maybe the chemistry
or the math that went along with it. So I had to
select something that I knew I could pass. And so I
started considering getting a liberal arts or a
business. And business looked better. And so then
because of my experiences and the work I used to do,
I thought I wanted to major in marketing with a
minor in English. Who advised you to do that? Well,
to tell you the truth, nobody. Oh, okay. I took the
catalog and I was going through it. If I want to
major here, what question do I have to take? Can I
pass them? I was looking back. hey, I was 32 years
old, I was out of high school, and I was a high school
dropout. So I had, there was some disadvantages
there, but I wanted to be sure after, you know,
getting rid of my house and furniture and so forth,
and for me to flunk out again, no. I gotta make a go of
it, and I made that decision myself, see. All
right, now, as you began your senior year, When did
you buy that ring? Oh, I didn't buy the ring. One of
the brothers, Rachel's brothers that had already
graduated, he was a petroleum engineer with
Atlantic Refining. He was nice enough to buy my
ring and get Rachel her ring. I want to tell you
something, you won't believe it. I still have the
ring. This is the original one. And I learned to
take it off when I wash my hands or when I'm working,
so it won't bleed. And then I take some India ink and
I cover it, then I let it dry, and I take a damp rag and
clean it off. So it still looks almost new. Yeah.
And some people look at that, is that a new one? No. I
didn't ask.
My brother-in-law, his name was Alvino, Alvino
Reyes, he told Rachel he paid $29.50 for this ring.
Oh my, my. Believe it or not. Now, his son, he had a
son that was handicapped, and I decided to return
the favor. And I told him, I said, look Bubba, I want
to pay for your record. Oh he was pleased. So I
shelled out $175. I did that gladly really. But I
don't know what that costs now. Do you have any ring
stories? Have you ever lost your ring and found it
in somebody? Or have you ever been somewhere on the
other side of the world and somebody saw that Aggie
ring? No, sir, I never lost it. I made sure that I put
it in my pocket.
Well, even to this day, people see my ring, they
say, Hey, I just saw your ring. And before they
could say anything, I went to whip out and meet
them. And here we are. And right now, I'm retired,
and I'm a volunteer at a cafeteria-style
restaurant that belongs to the First Baptist
Church back in San Antonio. And Southwestern Bell
has a monster building just about two blocks away.
I was on the Southwestern Bell board for 17 years.
So there's a bunch of Aggies that are working there
and they come over there and eat. And I'll bust
tables you know and do arching in. And when I fill up
their glasses with tea, it starts again. So I greet
them. Hi Aggie. And people turn around. Yes sir,
that ring touches something. I wear this one,
that's my Masonic ring. And some guy said, look,
I'm wearing the same kind of ring you've got. But
that's, I don't recall going somewhere in, you
know, a way, or just nothing of any importance.
that I know of that I have for you. All right, let's
see. Your senior year, you mention in here that
your son starts school and your wife got sick. Oh,
yeah. And so you had to double up and you moved to a
dormitory. What was it like for an old man to live
with those undergraduates?
I went in with a
Nunn-Regg student. He was real nice. And we had to
share the room. And I had the top bunk and he had the
lower bunk. and uh he was uh how old was he he must
have been uh oh about 24. no he was a veteran also i
don't know i don't recall that he was but he was not
in the corps and he was getting his degree in
accounting did you eat in the in the sabisa then uh
no oh I, you see, the MSC had a place to eat, and I
remember I used to eat basket burgers. Give me a
basket with a hamburger and some french fries.
Right, right.
Let's see, then you didn't buy senior boots since
you weren't in the Corps, and you didn't go to final
review. But you did go to commencement. Oh, yes.
Where was commencement held? At Kyle Field. At
Kyle Field. Yes, sir. Do you remember who the
speaker was? No, sir. Most of us don't remember who
the speaker was. Who came? What family came for
your commencement? My mother and two of my
sisters. That was all. And then, of course, Rachel
was there. And I remember her. When I went across
the platform to get there, my sister said, that's
my daddy.
But look, before that, there used to be a fellow,
his name was Don Harrison, and he used to work at a
parts department with me. He was old. And he had two
brothers that owned a clothing store. in San
Antonio called Fomby's, and it stood for men. And
he went to work for them, and he was a front man. He
joined the Chamber of Commerce and he joined all
these, you know, and tried to get people to come and
patronize his store. So I went to my trust and said,
I'm graduating, I don't have clothes, and I need a
suit of clothes. I can't pay you. But as soon as I get
a job, I'll pay you." He said, ah, bonk. He took over
there. I got a brand new dark blue suit. And he wrote
something on there. It's this. And he gave it to me.
Otherwise, I didn't have a suit of clothes. And so
that's part of our graduation. and uh it was it was
great all right as you walked across that stage
that day what feelings did you have in your heart oh
i said i was relieved of all the pressure i was
living under and this kind of thing that uh you know
uh You don't have to repeat this, but my wife had
hemorrhoids. And one of the hemorrhoids had some
kind of a knot in it or something that her doctor,
Dr. Lancaster, said that this could be something
bad, and I think we better get it out of the way. And
so I had some health insurance with me. I can't
remember the name, but they called him Tack. He had
an office in Northgate, you know, T-A-C-K. And it
was that coverage I had that got my wife at the
hospital there in Bealeville. And she, I was, I was
sending her the, I was getting, I was sending her
$60 of my $120. And now, see, I was the guy and I was,
my gross was $80 a month. And of course, for the end
of the month came by, I didn't get paid at the end of
the month. You had to wait about two weeks. So, and I
was sending the whole check to them in New York. I
says, listen, you living over there with your
mother, recuperating? And I don't want to hear any
of your sisters or brothers saying that you were a
charity case. You pay your mama and you tell her
that, look, this is all I've got, but I want to pay
for my food and for Robert's food and whatever. So
they wouldn't come later on and criticize me for
leaving my wife over there and let her mother take
care of her. As you were getting ready to graduate,
what kind of preparation did you think A&M had
given you for the real world? Well. How well
prepared were you? I was prepared. And
when I went for the job interviews, I would get uh,
offers for out of state, out of town. And my wife had
tap roots in San Antonio, New York, and she didn't
want to move anywhere. I said, oh, good, you know.
And, uh, so I said, well, I'd have to find something
here in San Antonio. And, uh, she says, all right,
um, oh. I said, let's see, uh, what the Lord wants to
do with us and, uh, see if we'll go from here. So
I looked around and I got this, the best job I had was
working on it at Lackland, civilian position. And
Lackland had a requirement that you had to know
this and this and this and this, or one year of
college. That's a snap. And this was a big
operation. The training needs a vision. Because
Lackland, at the time I was there, was like a little
college. Oh, it was huge. And the trainees weren't
in there for training. They had three training
bases, one in Rome, New York, one in California,
and then the one there in San Antonio. So they
closed these other two and left Lackland. And they
had a dental school. They had a police school. They
had . So the division would make custom-made
teaching aids,
all kinds of manuals, instruction manuals,
building ceremonies, and whatever the
instructors wanted besides the language school.
They had a language school where they would teach
English to these foreign pilots. So someday, we
would need them as our allies. And the trainees
also made language trainers. You're familiar
with a language trainer, where you're watching it
and hearing it. And it was nice, and security. My
wife was satisfied. Then I got the opportunity to
go to Kelly Air Force Base and it was a little bit
more responsibility and it was a better job.
Since I had all this experience with parts for
General Motors, We didn't have a buyer that could
buy aircraft parts. So I got in there and they
shipped me off to Fort Lee, Virginia. Six weeks in a
preparatory school for buyers. And I came back.
And let me see.
I had gone to the office, and all of a sudden there
was a dead silence. What happened? The news came on
that President Kennedy had been shot. Oh, my God,
this would have to happen. Well, anyway, I stayed
all night at Kelly and worked up from a bar to a
contracting officer. with a warrant and it
was the General's approval and one from up in
command level and I had no limitations and it was
good until I retired. As you look back, what did A&M
for you, what did A&M do well?
So get a job, and when you got it, you worked on it to
completion, and that it would be done right. And
they wouldn't settle for anything else. And that
stayed with me. And so in my work, I went from A to Z,
so that if my supervisors ever Well, they couldn't
question me because it was all right there, ready
to go. And complete it to a successful end and don't
mess around and do it right. If you had all of the
people that were at A&M when you were here, if all of
them were here today, which ones would you most
want to thank? To what people from that time are you
most grateful? Tom Putty. You see, maybe I
shouldn't say this, and you don't have to, but when
I applied to the employment office, there was an
old gentleman, you know, he had a big hat like he was
a retired rancher. And he says, I can't consider
you for a job. He says, you're a veteran, and you're
getting $120 a month. He says, I've got some kids
coming out of high school that don't have a penny.
He says, I've got to give them priority. So I can't
offer you a job. Oh, boy, that's when I started. And
I went to Chevrolet dealer Brian Carpenter. I got
all the help I need. Well, how about part-time?
Somebody take inventory or something. And I went
to Caldwell, same way.
I was just about to give up. So I went back to meet Mr.
Putty. And he turned things around for me. And I
said, hey, let's. Are there any teachers or
advisors that you'd also want to thank? Any
faculty? Any staff? Yes. One was my English
professor, Mr., and then there was, I can't think
of his name, but you remember Mr. Esten? C.K.
Esten. Yeah, he used to, him, I had him for English.
And
he made me give an oral report, see? and he liked it.
He came over and he put his arm around me and we were
good friends from then on. And let's see, I'm
trying to think.
Those were the only two, sir. What is it that builds
Aggie spirit? What causes those feelings? Well,
in my experience, If I had something to do with
another guy, he was an Aggie. And I let him know I was
an Aggie, too. That friendship was good together,
see? And I knew that any dealings I had or any
assistance I needed from a fellow Aggie, that I
would get it. That if my car broke down on the
highway, which it did, A bunch of Aggies in the
corner had stopped. What can I do to help you? Do you
need a flat fixed or whatever? And I knew that there
was a binding thing there between Aggies, and I
knew that if I had to deal with another Aggie for
whatever, I was in need, that I could expect some
form of help. What causes the Aggies, though, to be
helpful to each other?
What is it that happens while they're in school
here?
It's hard to say. I mean, words fail me. If
there's a place that's owned by an Aggie, If I let
them know, hey, I'm an Aggie, he will drop the
restriction and it's a way of getting in or getting
to know the person. We're given help to achieve
what I'm trying to get or go for, and I can expect
friendship and help that I wouldn't get from
somebody else that was not an Aggie. Let me give you
a for instance. My brother Bert, I mean my
brother-in-law Bert, he was a cattle auctioneer,
and he had to go to Montana
for a cattle sale. And it was dark, you know, He was a
stranger up there. He didn't know nobody. When he
goes to the stockyards, there was a bunch of Aggies
over there, agricultural people. And when Bert
went over there to meet him, and he found out that
there were Aggies, you know, he changed the whole
thing. Anything he needed, he got it, because
those Aggies would help him. And Bertone says,
that goes on everywhere, in civilian life and in
the military. And my son, he goes back and forth,
and he meets Aggies all over. And they all, a lot of
them come here for legal advice.
If you could advise the leaders of Texas A&M today,
what advice would you give them?
to continue
and enlarge on the friendship and the camaraderie
of all Aggies. I say that because Plurton
Vandiver, he wanted to do away with the Corps. And I
said, well, he's crazy. I said, the Morrill Act
says A&M is going to be put up there because we need a
school of agriculture. There was no other place.
And in addition to that, it says there will be
military training at that place. So Mr. Vandiver
cannot do away with it. And we're going to have
people like that, sir, that are going to stop
certain traditions. And I want to tell those
people, don't listen to that crap. I say, you keep
this thing going, and it's the only one in the world
that's like this, that I know of. And you keep that
going, and then if there's hostilities come up,
who's going to get the first call? A&M. So it
behooves you to just make no changes and improve on
it.
All right, we're almost through with the
questions I've thought of. Have you thought of
some things we've left out we should have covered?
No, sir. All right, then among the last questions,
what difference has it made in your life that you
attended Texas A&M?
We
met a lot of people in high places, especially my
wife. My wife is a gung-ho Aggie, I tell you. And we
belong to the San Antonio A&M Club, and she belongs
to the A&M Mothers.
And you don't have to put this on there.
She was president of the federation. Mm-hm. The
whole state, plus our organization in Louisiana
and someplace else. And this is just between us.
Bound to doles. was the biggest crook, in my
opinion, when it deals with trying to sell their
wares without competition.
And Bob Smith, I hate his guts for what he did. So he
wanted to set up a place, a cafeteria, a dining
hall. and set it here on a compass. And just before
that, A&M had gotten a lot of publicity on the way
our dining halls were being run by these people
that were good. Among the best in the nation. The
best in the nation. And Mr. Bob Smith was going to do
it the other way, see. Now, we didn't know about
this until the kids were riding home. I need more
money. Why? Well, the price of food's going to go up
and all this. So Margaret Freeman, Margaret
Freeman was the president of the Federation, and
her wife was there to help her. They said, hey,
that's a bunch of bull. So those two ladies
questioned Mr. Bob Smith and who was the
president, I mean the chairman of the regents.
He's a lawyer. I don't know, because there are a
bunch of lawyers. Well, he was the chairman at the
time. He was in on that deal. And they started
asking questions, and Bob Smith couldn't give the
answers. Then the governor, that woman, what was
her name? Ann Richards. Ann Richards. She got wind
of it. Bob Smith went to her and said, you know,
there's two girls over there. really nitpicking
me and I don't have the answers. And they were
getting liquor up there for certain people, you
know, to benefit this chairman and Bob Smith. So
they did enough digging, digging, digging, until
something happened. And then Bob Smith was okay.
All because of Margaret Freeman and Rachel
Gonzalez. If they hadn't done that, I don't know
where we'd be. This is the kind of thing I'm saying,
hey, all this is no good. Get it out and prove
anything. So I just, I can't think of this
chairman's name. He's an attorney. In Houston. He
got out. He resigned. Otherwise, you couldn't
imagine what was going on. So my wife, knows a lot of
A&M mothers all over the state. And she's just
nutty. She's crazy about A&M. And you better not
say anything ugly. And sometimes we'll go to some
meeting and the speaker says, well I want to start,
I want to tell you a naggy joke. And I'm like, no you
won't. I don't want to hear no naggy jokes. You get
down to business. And the speaker, you know, he
don't want to say, he doesn't say the actual.
That's how she loves A&M, see. And then it flows to
me and my son the same way. Don't say nothing bad
about A&M.
Next to last question. Somebody walks up to you and
gives you a check for a million dollars with one
condition. You must pass it on to Texas A&M, but you
get to decide how it would be used.